-President Trump freaked out
about the Russia investigation
this morning after returning
from a very awkward
international summit.
For more on this, it's time
for "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
Trump was at the G20 summit
in Argentina over the weekend
as he faced his most serious
legal threat yet
from the Russia investigation,
which right off the bat
has to be weird.
Every time Trump goes to one of
these international summits,
he's under a cloud of suspicion.
He's like a guy
who goes on a date
and tries to ignore the fact
that his ankle bracelet
is beeping like crazy.
[ Laughter ]
[ As Trump ] What? No.
That's just like a Fitbit.
That noise means -- it just
means I got my steps in."
[ Normal voice ]
And from day one,
the constant and
increasingly damning revelations
from the Russia investigation
have made Trump's relationships
with other world leaders
super awkward.
For example, in Bob Woodward's
book "Fear,"
Woodward describes Trump
calling his Egyptian counterpart
and President,
Abdel Fattah el-Sisi,
saying, "Donald, I'm worried
about this investigation.
Are you going to be around?"
Trump said it was
like a kick in the nuts.
Although in fairness,
Trump always looks like he
just got kicked in the nuts.
[ Laughter and applause ]
Right?
And...
[ Cheers and applause ]
...look at the way he stands.
The way he stands looks
like a freeze frame
from "America's Funniest
Home Videos."
He looks like a dad
who was standing on
the wrong end of a seesaw.
[ Laughter ]
And you could see
how lonely Trump was
throughout the G20 summit.
On Friday, for example,
world leaders gathered
for the traditional group photo.
And after the photo was done,
Trump just sort of milled around
by himself for a while.
[ Laughter ]
Look at him.
He looks like he's
at a house party
and the only other person
he knows is in the bathroom.
Surprised he didn't do that move
where you pretend
to respond to texts,
but in reality, you're just
playing Words With Friends.
[ Laughter ]
Trump is desperate.
[ Cheers and applause ]
Trump is desperate to socialize
at these things,
but he's so bad at it.
For example, he signed
a new trade deal
with Mexico's president
and Canada's prime minister,
Justin Trudeau,
who he's repeatedly attacked.
Trump tried to claim the dispute
had made them better friends,
but Trudeau
didn't seem to agree.
-I'm honored to be here with
President Enrique Peña Nieto --
become a great friend --
of Mexico
and Prime Minister
Justin Trudeau,
who has also become
a great friend.
It's been a battle,
and battles sometimes
make great friendships.
So it's really terrific.
-Look at his face.
[ Laughter ]
Absolutely nothing.
That face is the closest thing
Canada has to a middle finger.
[ Laughter ]
In fact,
on Canadian television --
on Canadian TV, that face
is considered so obscene,
it has to be blurred out.
[ Laughter ]
And even when someone does want
to be friendly with Trump,
he messes it up.
For example, he was supposed to
take a photo with
the president of Argentina.
But watch as Trump walks away
from the shoot early
and is caught muttering
off camera on a hot mic
while the president of Argentina
stands there awkwardly
by himself.
[ Indistinct conversations ]
-Get me out of here.
-That's right.
Trump was caught on a hot mic,
saying, "Get me out of here."
First of all, we're trying.
Second, why?
Why can't...
[ Cheers and applause ]
Why can't you stand still
for like 10 seconds?
I've had better luck
getting my dog
to take a Christmas photo
in her Santa hat.
[ Laughter ]
Is there a more exhausting job
than a man who has to chase
President Trump?
[ Laughter ]
"Go get him, Gary."
"Uh..."
The only person Trump ever seems
truly comfortable with is
at these summits is Russian
President Vladimir Putin.
So Trump must have been
super Bummed
when he was forced to cancel
his meeting with Putin
after his ex-lawyer,
Michael Cohen, admitted
in a plea deal
that he lied about plans
to build a Trump Tower in Moscow
during the 2016 campaign.
Although when he was asked
about the meeting with Putin,
Trump insisted
that he canceled it
not because of the guilty plea
but because of a naval skirmish
between Russia and Ukraine.
And as usual, Trump made clear
that he definitely
knows the specific details
of what happened
in that naval skirmish.
-You know, frankly, in light of
what happened with Ukraine,
with the ships and the sailors,
it just wouldn't be
the right time.
We can't allow certain things
to happen.
And you know, it happened.
-Okay, so, he has no idea
what happened.
All he knows is it had something
to do with ships and sailors.
This is what I think went down.
The National Security Advisor
briefed Trump and told him,
"Okay, Mr. President,
all you have to do is
tell the press
that the United States
is protesting the seizure
of Ukrainian naval personnel
by Russian forces
in the Black Sea
in violation of
international law."
And then Trump just, like,
stared at him for 30 seconds,
and the
National Security Adviser
said, "Just say Russians seized
Ukrainian naval personnel."
And then Trump stared at him
for another 30 seconds.
And then he said,
"You know what?
just say it's
about ships and sailors."
[ Laughter and applause ]
The revelation that Trump
was pursuing a business deal
with Putin in the summer of 2016
during the presidential campaign
is probably
the most damning development
in the investigation so far.
It makes clear that not only
have Trump
and his closest associates
lied repeatedly,
both to the American people
and to Congress,
but also that Special Counsel
Robert Mueller knows they lied
and he can prove they lied.
And now Trump is freaking out,
unleashing an angry tirade
this morning on Twitter.
-The President wrote this.
"Michael Cohen asked judge
for no prison time.
You mean he can do all of
the terrible,
'unrelated to Trump' things
having to do with fraud,
big loans, taxis, et cetera,
and not serve
a long prison term?
He makes up stories to get
a great and already reduced deal
for himself
and get his wife and
father-in-Law,
who have the money,
off scot-free.
He lied for this outcome and
should, in my opinion,
serve a full and complete
sentence.
'I will never testify
against Trump.'
This statement was recently made
by Roger Stone,
essentially stating
that he will not be forced
by a rogue and
out-of-control prosecutor
to make up lies and stories
about President Trump.
Nice to know that some people
still have guts."
-Damn. There are only two
explanations here.
Either he got more
bad legal news this morning
or someone kicked him
in the nuts again.
[ Laughter ]
Also, I have a few questions.
First of all, you know
"scot-free"
is spelled with one "T," right?
It's not a person's name.
Trump probably thinks Scott Free
was the first person
to get way with a crime.
[ Laughter ]
-[ As Trump ] in the 1700s,
a guy named Scott Free --
he stole a donkey
and he got away with it.
[ Laughter ]
And that's why we still
use his name today.
[ Laughter ]
Because of the donkey.
[ Normal voice ] Second,
why does he put his own name
in quotation marks?
I swear, it's almost like
even he knows
he's not really the President.
He could have saved us all
a lot of time
if he had just tweeted this.
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
In order --
In order to believe
that Trump did nothing wrong,
you'd have to believe that he
and his closest associates
have been lying for three years,
including to Congress,
under penalty of perjury
because they're innocent.
Just think about how many times
their story has changed.
First, they said
there were no contacts
with any Russians, period.
Then, they said that even if
they did try to collude,
nothing came of it.
Then, they said collusion
is not a crime.
And now Trump's defenders
are reduced to insisting
that he wasn't personally
involved in the hacking himself.
-Robert Mueller and
his team of partisans
have no evidence,
not a whiff of collusion
involving Trump
and the Russians.
A Trump Tower meeting --
perfectly legal.
The hacking -- that's absurd.
Trump wasn't involved in that.
-Of course he wasn't.
Trump couldn't
hack into a computer
even if the password
was "Melania."
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
-Trump's ex-lawyer
lied to Congress
about a business deal
with the Russian government,
and he told investigators
he lied because Trump lied,
and Mueller can prove it.
Every new legal filing
from Mueller makes clear
that he knows
what really happened.
And when Mueller's
done with him,
I have a feeling
Trump will be saying...
-Get me out of here.
-This has been
"A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]